Immigration/What is required to gain asylum in the U.S.?/Asylum laws protect those fleeing to the United States to escape political, religious, or social persecution. The one seeking asylum must demonstrate a "well-founded fear of persecution" stemming from their political beliefs, their race, their religion, their nationality, or their membership in some unpopular group. Whether the fear will be deemed to be well-founded will depend, at least in part, upon which way the political winds are blowing in the U.S. at that moment. Someone escaping from a country whose troubles have gained wide media attention, for example, will generally have a better chance than someone escaping from a lower-profile country.
Immigration/What is required to get a work visa in the U.S.?/Visas are available for a limited number of foreign nationals to come and work in the U.S. The most common type is called an H-1B visa, which requires a U.S. employer to sponsor an applicant because they want the applicant to work for them in the U.S. The applicant must have at least the equivalent of a bachelor's degree, and there must be a correlation between the job duties and the applicant's qualifications. The visa lasts for three years and can be extended for another three, but not beyond six years. Other types of work visas are available to those who fall into special categories, such as religious workers and those who are transferring to the U.S. within a company they already work for. For a full list or more information about work visas, talk to an immigration attorney.
Immigration/If I came to the U.S. on a work visa, under what conditions can I apply for a green card on my own?/Applying on your own, without your employer's backing, can be difficult. Generally, you have to be able to show that you possess extraordinary ability in one of the following fields: science, art, education, business, or sports. There may be other limited options that exist in certain situations. Talk to a qualified immigration attorney to find out if you fit into any of those options.
Immigration/Under what circumstance will a foreign spouse's permanent resident status in the U.S. be conditional?/A spouse's permanent resident status will be conditional if it is based on a marriage that was less than two years old from the day the permanent resident status was granted. To remove the conditions, the spouse must establish that the purpose of the marriage was not to evade the U.S. immigration laws.
Immigration/Under what circumstance will a foreign fiance(e), who has been admitted into the U.S. for the purpose of getting married, be required to leave the U.S?/If the marriage to the U.S. citizen who filed the petition to permit the fiance(e) into the U.S. does not take place within 90 days of entering the U.S., the fiance(e) will be required to leave the country.
Immigration/What are some factors that are considered by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) in granting an individual immigration status?/Factors considered by the USCIS include: Whether the applicant has an immediate relative who is a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident; Whether the applicant has a permanent employment opportunity in the U.S., and whether that employment fits under one of the five eligible employment categories; Whether the applicant is making a capital investment in the U.S. that meets certain dollar thresholds, and that either creates or saves a specified number of jobs; and Whether the applicant qualifies for refugee status as an individual who suffers or fears persecution on the basis of race, religion, nationality, political view, or membership in a certain group in his or her country of origin.
Immigration/What is the basis for being deported? What are the consequences of deportation?/Deportation (or removal) occurs when an alien is found to have violated certain immigration or criminal laws, consequences being that the alien forfeits his or her right to remain in the U.S., and is usually barred from returning.
Immigration/How is the deportation process initiated?/The Bureau yan of Immigration and Customs Enforcement issues a Notice to Appear (NTA) stating the reason why the alien should be deported or removed. The NTA is served to the alien and is filed with the immigration court. A hearing is scheduled, at which an immigration judge will determine if the information in the NTA is correct. If it is, removal of the alien will be ordered.
Immigration/Can a deportation or removal order be appealed?/Yes. The alien has 30 days to appeal the decision to the Board of Immigration (BIA). If the BIA decides against the alien, the matter can be appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals. Finally, if the Court of Appeals also finds against the alien, the matter can be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Immigration/Can a fee for immigration related services be waived?/Yes. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) bureau has discretion to waive a filing fee if the applicant can establish that he or she is unable to pay. In order to have the USCIS consider waiving a fee, the applicant must follow specific instructions, including completion of a form for review by the USCIS.
Personal Finance/What do I do when my debt is overwhelming me?/Your creditors ultimately want to get paid, so they may be willing to work with you to make sure you're able to pay off debt. You should contact your creditors directly to find out how to pay off your balance and suggest possible solutions. For instance, you could propose skipping one or two payments and add them to the end of the loan term. Some creditors may even be willing to draft a new loan agreement. Additionally, a number of nonprofit organizations and credit counseling services can work with you and your creditors to help you pay off debt, including debt negotiation and debt consolidation. However, make sure you are working with a reputable organization (see Avoiding Credit Repair and Credit Counseling Scams).
Personal Finance/If I miss a mortgage payment, when will the bank begin to foreclose?/In most situations, foreclosure notices are sent out if banks do not receive loan payments for four or five months. However, as with most other loans, banks would rather keep you as a customer than sell your home for a loss. Banks often have programs that will allow customers to miss one or two payments, pay only interest for a few months, or spread out missed payments over the rest of the loan. Also, there are many free and low-cost foreclosure avoidance counseling services available to consumers. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) maintains a listing by state of HUD approved housing counseling services that may be able to help you avoid foreclosure.
Personal Finance/My house is in danger of being foreclosed; should I cut my losses and sell my home?/If you know that foreclosure is coming and you cannot stop the process, then you'll most likely be better off selling your home. Generally, if you find someone that is willing to buy your home for at least the amount that you still owe on your mortgage, then you should take the offer. If the offer is for less than the amount of debt that is still owed, your bank has the option of blocking the sale. "Short sales" are another option where banks may let you sell your home for less than you owe and forgive the remaining balance, but these short sales are rare and you must often prove to the bank why you qualify.
Personal Finance/I received a huge utility bill in the mail. Will the utility company make me pay it all at once?/Depending on your circumstances, your utility company may allow you to average your utility bill out over the year. If your bills are higher in some months and lower in others, your utility company may allow you to flatten out your payments so you pay similar amounts each month. Additionally, some utility companies allow those with small incomes to receive reduced rates on electricity, gas, water, and sewage. However, there are situations when you may have to pay off the entire utility bill. For example, if an unknown leak occurs where water runs continuously, you may be responsible for the large bill that shows up at the end of the month.
Personal Finance/If I do not pay off debts, am I going to go to jail?/Most likely not. The U.S. did away with debtors' prison by 1850, and there are only a few circumstances where you may be jailed. That said, you may be jailed if: you are tried and convicted of willfully refusing to pay income taxes; or you refuse to comply with a court order, most of the time with respect to child care payments; or you have concealed, or are attempting to conceal, your property or your person in order to avoid paying a creditor that has a judgment against you.
Personal Finance/What can my credit card company do if I fail to pay my bill?/The credit card company's rights are set out in the fine print in your credit card contract. Generally, the credit card company has the right to sue you to recover past due amounts. As a practical matter, however, they usually undertake collection efforts prior to filing suit, such as calling you at home or sending you letters in the mail. The collection efforts typically escalate as the debt gets older. Another step they can take is to cancel your card, which denies you any further credit from that company. All these efforts can harm your credit rating, which could make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in the future.
Personal Finance/Under what conditions should I put my possessions in a trust?/Some people choose to place their possessions in a living trust in order to save their descendants the trouble of having to put the estate through probate after their death. This works, however, only if every asset is part of the trust. If not, those assets that are not part of the estate will generally have to be probated. A trust can also be an estate-planning tool to help larger estates avoid or reduce estate taxes. The first spouse to die can transfer his or her estate to the surviving spouse without incurring estate taxes. The surviving spouse's estate, however, will pay estate taxes when he or she dies. By placing their assets in trusts, a married couple can avoid or reduce what their estate otherwise would have had to pay. Talk to an estate planning attorney to discuss whether a trust makes sense for you.
Personal Finance/Can creditors get to my Social Security benefits?/Generally, no, although the IRS is allowed to use your benefits to pay back taxes and the benefits may be tapped to pay court-ordered child support.
Personal Finance/At what point should I file for bankruptcy?/That's a difficult question with no easy answer. The timing for any particular individual is best left for that person's bankruptcy lawyer. If you're insolvent, which means that you're paying out more than you're bringing in, and you don't see any change in your financial condition in the foreseeable future, it's probably time to talk to an attorney.
Personal Finance/If I file for bankruptcy, will my creditors be able to get to my retirement account?/Generally, no. Proper retirement accounts, such as those in a 401(k) plan or IRA, are exempt from creditors' claims in bankruptcy.
Willing/What is the purpose of preparing a will?/A will is a legally binding document that identifies who should inherit a person's property after they die. Recipients often include a spouse, children, grandchildren or a charitable organization. Many wills also contain a provision that names a guardian to care for minor children. A person that makes a will is called a testator.
Willing/What happens to my property and my children if I die without preparing a will?/If a person dies without a will or another legal distribution device, a state's laws of intestate succession govern inheritance rights. Typically, a spouse (or in some states a domestic partner) and children are first in line to inherit a decedent's property. If the deceased did not have a spouse or children, close relatives like parents, siblings, and grandparents will inherit the property. If the decedent has no relatives that qualify under a state's intestate succession laws, the state receives the property. If a parent of minor children dies without a will and the other parent is unable to provide care, the state determines who will become the guardian of the children and the property they inherit.
Willing/Do I need a lawyer to create a valid will?/No. State laws do not require the assistance of a lawyer when preparing a will. Because most wills only require instructions for the distribution of property and the naming of a guardian for minor children, most people can create a simple will by using software, ready-made forms or instructions from a book.
Willing/Can I make a handwritten will?/It depends on whether a state's law recognizes a handwritten will. In about half of the states, a person may create a handwritten will, also called a "holographic" will. Unlike typed and computer-printed wills, witnesses are unnecessary for holographic wills. Some states require that the testator handwrite the entire holographic will, including the provisions, the date, and the signature. Other states are more lenient -- the testator may use a fill-in-the-blank document if it contains handwritten portions, a signature, and a date. Handwritten wills, however, may create complications. Many probate courts are hesitant to recognize the validity of these wills since they are difficult to verify.
Willing/When do you have to probate a will?/If all of a decedent's assets were transferred to a trust, and nothing transfers by reason of his death, probate will not be necessary. Otherwise, if ownership of any of the decedent's property passes by reason of his or her death, probate will be necessary, unless the estate has a value less than $50,000 (because special rules apply for those smaller estates).
Willing/What happens if we can't find the deceased's will?/If you cannot find the original will, the probate court will typically presume that the deceased destroyed it. You should note that it must be the original will; even copies are generally not good enough.
Willing/What makes a will valid?/Wills are valid when they meet all the requirements of Illinois law. Those requirements are that the will must (1) have been made by someone at least 18 years old who is of sound mind, (2) be in writing, (3) have been signed by the one making the will, and (4) have been attested by two people who witnessed the testator's signature. The laws also provide guidance on what to do if the testator cannot make his or her own signature and what constitutes a revocation of the will.
Willing/Can I name a guardian for my children in my will?/Yes. A will can name a "personal guardian" to care for minor children if both parents are deceased or if the surviving parent is unable to care for the children. The personal guardian will have legal guardianship over the minor children until they reach the age of 18.
Willing/How do I revise my will?/A testator can change a will by preparing a new will or by adding an addition called a codicil. When changes are substantive, revoking a will and starting over may be easier. An express statement in the new will of the revocation of all prior wills legally revokes a will. Minor changes, such as the addition of a new provision or the removal of a beneficiary, are appropriate changes for a codicil. See also Changing a Will.
Willing/Can I disinherit my spouse?/In community property states, a spouse is legally entitled to half of the property acquired or earned during the marriage. While a married person may leave their half of the community property to someone other than their spouse, they may not dispose of the spouse's share of the community property. In states where common law governs inheritance laws, a person may choose to disinherit a spouse through a will. However, common law states protect the surviving spouse from complete disinheritance by granting the right of the spouse to claim some portion of the deceased spouse's property by going to court.
Business/What types of licenses would a small business need and where do I get them?/The business licenses and permits that a small business will need will vary depending on the business industry and the location of the business. Business licenses and permits are issued at the federal, state, city, and/or county levels. All businesses will usually need a city and/or county business license, while most businesses will also need a federal employment identification number (EIN). You can check to see if you need an EIN and apply on the IRS website. Depending on your business industry, you made need other federal business licenses as well.
Business/Where can I get advice on starting a small business?/There are a number of professional advisors you can consult, including lawyers with vast small business experience. Your local bookstore should also have an ample supply of how-to books available. Another resource is SCORE (Service Corps of Retired Executives), which provides free advice from retired executives and is affiliated with the U.S. Small Business Administration.
Business/As a new business owner, do I need to write a business plan?/The general rule is that you don't need to write a formal business plan unless you need to raise funds, either by borrowing from a lender or attracting investors. Even for those who don't need to raise funds, however, writing a business plan can be a good idea because it forces you to come to terms with important aspects of operating your business.
Business/What will my tax obligations be for my business?/While your tax obligations will vary depending on the type of legal structure you choose for your business, there are a few start-up tax issues to be aware of. First of all, it is imperative that you keep good records. You should also be sure to keep your business and personal taxes separate. Businesses can also deduct certain business expenses, which can lower the taxes your business owes.
Business/What are my options for legal structures for my business?/The available legal structures for businesses include sole proprietorships, partnerships, limited liability companies, and corporations. Each type of structure will have its own requirements for formation and maintaining status. The tax status and owner's personal liability will also vary depending on the type of business structure.
Business/What is a fictitious business name?/A fictitious business name is a name that is different from the legal business name on file with the state (for a sole proprietorship, it would be the business owner's name). Generally, fictitious business names must be registered with the state and/or county. Since registration requirements vary from state to state, it's important to check with your state laws regarding fictitious business names.
Business/What is a corporation?/A corporation is a legal entity that is separate from its owner, which means that owner is shielded from personal liability (except for certain situations). Corporations are subject to double taxation – profits are taxed both at the corporate level and when distributed to shareholders. In order to maintain corporate status, the corporation must observe various formalities such as conducting annual meetings, recording meeting minutes, electing directors, and issuing stock certificates. While corporations are a popular business structure, they are complex and have more start-up costs than other legal structures.
Business/What are the benefits of having a limited liability company?/A limited liability company (LLC) combines the best aspects of a sole proprietorship and a corporation. Like a corporation, the owner of an LLC is protected from personal liability. However, unlike a corporation, an LLC is not required to observe corporate formalities. There is a tax advantage to forming an LLC as well. An LLC is not subject to double taxation (like a corporation), but rather enjoys pass-through taxation, which is similar to a partnership or sole proprietorship.
Business/What are my options if I no longer trust my business partner?/The simplest option is to cease doing business with your partner. If that isn't the option you want to pursue, you need to take a closer look at how your business is organized. If you are organized as a partnership, you need to remember that all partners are responsible for partnership debts, which means that you are potentially responsible for your partner's actions. You may want to consider changing the business to a form where you have some liability protection from the acts of your co-owners, such as a corporation or a limited liability company. Talk to an attorney about which options best suits your situation.
Marriage/My partner and I will be getting married in a few months. What will we need to do in order to be considered legally married?	Marriage requirements vary from state to state, but usually include a license, a waiting period, blood tests, minimum ages, a ceremony officiated by a clergyperson or an officer of the court, and witnesses.
Marriage/I'm getting married soon, and I want to make sure that my savings account remains my own separate property. How can I do that?/You should continue to keep all separate property separate throughout the marriage if you are concerned about keeping it as your personal asset upon your death or divorce. Generally, this means you should not "commingle" property you owned prior to marriage with property you and your spouse acquire during the marriage, or it may become difficult -- if not impossible -- to legally determine which is which.
Marriage/My future spouse and I want to create a prenuptial agreement. How should we go about doing so?/Before entering into a prenuptial agreement, both parties must fully disclose their assets, income, and liabilities to the other, and they must enter into the agreement in "good faith," meaning that neither person intends to misrepresent the facts or take advantage of the other. In order to ensure that the premarital agreement will be enforced, it is advisable for both future spouses to be represented by separate attorneys, who can advise them on their rights and responsibilities. In fact, some states' laws require that each party be represented by a separate attorney in order for a premarital agreement to be valid.
Marriage/My spouse and I have been married for almost 20 years, but I've owned my business for more than 25 years. I know that the income from the business is "community" property, but is the business itself considered my separate property?/Not necessarily. Don't assume that a business you owned prior to marriage remains separate property after marriage. It may become subject to community property laws. If your business increased in value during the marriage due in part to your spouse's contributions, your spouse may be entitled to a share of the increase in value upon divorce or your death. Such contributions can be obvious -- your spouse provided bookkeeping services to the business -- but they can also be more subtle -- i.e. your spouse took care of the home and children so you could focus on running the business.
Marriage/Should my spouse and I file a joint tax return?/Ordinarily, filing a joint return will give you a greater tax advantage. But in some cases, your combined income tax on separate returns may be less than it would be on a joint return. Determine your tax both on a joint return and on separate returns under the community property laws of your state. You can then compare the tax figured under both methods and use the one that results in less tax. Keep in mind that if you file separate returns you and your spouse must each report half of your combined community income and deductions in addition to your separate income and deductions.
Marriage/What does joint custody mean?/In typical post-divorce arrangement, one ex-spouse will have custody of the child or children, and the other spouse has visitation rights. As a practical matter, this means that the children live with the one parent, and then they stay with the other parent on, for example, alternating weekends. Where the non-custodial parent lives out of town, the children might visit him or her on designated holidays or during parts of their summer vacation. Joint custody means that the two ex-spouses share legal custody of the children. In some cases, the children will rotate from parent to parent. In other cases, the children will live primarily with one parent, but the other parent plays an active role in their upbringing. Where both parents work, and they share school drop-offs and pick-ups, joint custody offers them more flexibility because either parent can sign school documents or grant sick-day permission. Joint custody isn't typically used where one spouse lives out of town.
Marriage/Do I have to give my ex-spouse visitation rights?/Yes, generally, unless you can establish to the court's satisfaction that your ex-spouse may flee with or harm the child.
Marriage/What are my options if my ex-spouse stops paying child support?/Your first option concerns who will collect the overdue child support. You can do it yourself, or you can hire someone else to do it, such as a lawyer, collection agency, or social services agency. Changes have been made to the law in recent years to give you easier and more powerful tools to collect overdue amounts. For example, you can have your ex-spouse's driver's license suspended, under certain conditions, and you can get the court to issue an order withholding pay from your ex-spouse's paycheck. Doing it yourself will be the cheapest option. Whether you want to handle it yourself will depend upon the time you have, how hard you believe your ex-spouse will fight the process, and whether your ex-spouse has a steady job. One suggestion is to go to your local courthouse and ask them what processes are available to you. If it sounds too difficult or time-consuming, talk to a divorce attorney.
Marriage/If I get a divorce, who pays the mortgage?/If both names are on the mortgage, you both continue to be responsible for the debt, regardless of who is actually living in the house. Unless the mortgage holder agrees to remove your name (an unlikely event), you're not going to be able to get your name off the mortgage. In that event, one option is to sell the house and pay off the mortgage.
Marriage/Does a spouse have to join a bankruptcy filing?/No. You can file for bankruptcy without having your spouse join you, but any assets in which you have an interest will be part of the bankruptcy estate, which means that your spouse's interests may be affected even though his or her name is not on the bankruptcy petition.
Employment/How can I prove age discrimination?/Under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, it is unlawful to discriminate against a person because of his or her age with respect to any term, condition, or privilege of employment. The law applies to those who are at least 40 years of age, and it applies to all aspects of employment: hiring, firing, promotion, layoff, compensation, benefits, job assignments, and training. The law covers employers with at least 20 employees; all governments, including federal, state, and local governments; employment agencies; and labor organizations. To prove age discrimination, you would need evidence that your employer engaged in discriminatory activity. In the case of a single incident, such as a younger person was promoted over a person who is at least 40 years old, you would need strong direct evidence of discrimination, such as statements, email, or correspondence from the employer admitting or strongly implying that age was a factor in the decision to promote the younger employee.In some situations, you may be able to prove age discrimination by demonstrating that the employer engaged in a pattern of disriminatory behavior. For example, if you didn't have strong direct evidence of age discrimination, you might still be able to establish it by showing that every time or virtually every time the employer offered a promotion, it gave it to the younger person. Talk to an employment attorney about what might be necessary in your particular situation.
Employment/Under what conditions can I collect unemployment benefits?/Unemployment benefits are available to those who lose their job through no fault of their own. Thus, if an employee quits or is fired for poor job performance, the employee is generally not entitled to unemployment benefits.
Employment/How long does COBRA last?/COBRA is a federal law that allows an individual between jobs to continue to pay for health insurance coverage provided to him in his previous job, under certain conditions. Generally, it provides coverage for 18 months. The coverage can be extended up to 36 months under certain conditions, such as where coverage is terminated due to the employee's death or divorce.
Employment/What can I do if my employer reneges on a promise to provide retiree health insurance coverage?/Years ago, many employers offered certain retirees a promise of lifetime health coverage at company expense as part of their benefit package. When health care costs skyrocketed, many employers looking to cut costs began dropping retiree health coverage. Whether your employer can drop its coverage depends upon your plan documents. If the documents contain a specific promise to maintain coverage during your life at their expense, you may be able to stop them for reneging on the promise. Absent the specific promise, however, there is nothing to prevent an employer from dropping the coverage, even where they led you to believe that they would provide them. If you think that you might be protected, talk to an attorney about your options.
Employment/What are my workplace rights if I'm environmentally sensitive?/For the most part, there isn't much regulation of indoor air. There is, however, a growing recognition of what has become known as sick building syndrome, which is flu-like symptoms often caused by poor ventilation. The first place to start is to notify your employer's human resources department of your problem. If they don't remedy your problem, talk to a workers compensation attorney about your options.
Employment/What privacy rights do I have in my computer at work?/An employee generally doesn't have any privacy rights in a workplace computer. The theory is that the employer has paid for the computer, has provided the network, has provided the office space you're working in, and is paying you to perform work. They have a right to monitor what you do on their computer while on their time.
Medical/What is a medical malpractice claim?/A medical malpractice claim is a claim of negligence committed by a professional health care provider -- such as a doctor, nurse, dentist, technician, hospital or hospital worker -- whose treatment of a patient departs from a standard of care met by those with similar training and experience, resulting in harm to a patient or patients.
Medical/Does someone who is not satisfied with the results of his or her surgery have a viable medical malpractice claim?/In general, there are no guarantees of medical results, and unexpected or unsuccessful results do not necessarily mean negligence occurred. To succeed in a medical malpractice case, a plaintiff has to show an injury or damages that resulted from the doctor's deviation from the standard of care applicable to the procedure.
Medical/What should I do if I think I have a medical malpractice claim?/You should talk to a lawyer who specializes in such cases, as soon as possible. Tell the attorney exactly what happened, from your first visit to the doctor or other health care provider, through your last contact with him or her. If possible, obtain your medical records and bring them to your first meeting with the attorney. There are time limits governing how long someone may wait to bring a medical malpractice claim, so time is of the essence.
Medical/What is "informed consent"?/Although the specific definition of informed consent may vary from state to state, it means essentially that a physician (or other medical provider) must tell a patient of all the potential benefits, risks, and alternatives involved in any surgical procedure, medical procedure, or other course of treatment, and must obtain the patient's written consent to proceed.
Medical/Do I have a case against a doctor who prescribed me a drug for treatment, but failed to tell me it was part of an experimental program?/Your physician had a duty to tell you that the drug was part of an experimental program, and you had the right to refuse to participate in it. You may have grounds for an action against your doctor based on his/her failure to obtain your "informed consent" relative to this treatment.
Medical/If the consent form I signed prior to a procedure is considered valid, can I recover any damages in a medical malpractice claim against my doctor?/Yes, you still may be able to recover damages. A consent form does not release from liability a physician who was negligent in performing a medical procedure. If you can establish that your doctor deviated from the applicable standard of care in performing the procedure, and you were injured as a result, you may still recover against him/her. You may also have a claim that the procedure the physician performed went beyond the consent you gave, in which case the doctor might even be liable for battery.
Medical/How does a jury determine if a doctor's actions were negligent?/A jury will consider the testimony of experts, usually other doctors, who will testify whether they believe your physician's actions followed standard medical practices, or fell below the accepted standard of care.
Medical/What is a "Certificate of Merit?"/One obstacle plaintiffs in many states may have to overcome before they can even file a medical malpractice claim against a health care professional is the requirement that they file what is commonly known as a "certificate of merit." In order to file a certificate of merit, a plaintiff will first have to have an expert, usually another physician, review the relevant medical records and certify that the plaintiff's health care provider deviated from accepted medical practices, which resulted in injury to the plaintiff. The plaintiff's attorney then files the certificate of merit, which confirms that the attorney has consulted with a medical expert and that the plaintiff's action has merit.
Medical/Under what conditions may I sue my doctor for a misdiagnosis?/Generally, you can sue a medical provider for malpractice if the provider's care falls below the standard of care for that type of treatment. Since the appropriate standard of care can be identified only by others practicing in that field (except in situations where malpractice is obvious, even to the layperson), you can sue your doctor when you or your lawyer are able to find another doctor willing to state under oath that he or she believes that your doctor's care fell below the standard. Remember, however, that medicine is not an exact science. Some mistakes, including some misdiagnoses, may not be grounds for a lawsuit.
Car Accident/What if I was not wearing a seat belt at the time of my accident? Can I still recover damages?/It depends on the state in which the accident occurred. In some states, not buckling up can negate or reduce any potential compensation for damages, on the basis that people suffer more severe injuries when not wearing seat belts. In other states, this is not the case. Your attorney can tell you what the law is in your state, and will argue for your right to recover damages.
Car Accident/Should I release my medical records to another driver's insurance adjuster?/Definitely not. Medical record releases should only be signed under limited circumstances and after consulting with a qualified personal injury trial lawyer. If your medical information gets into the insurance adjuster's hands, it could hurt your case.
Car Accident/If I file a personal injury claim, will I have to go to court?/If another driver's insurance company agrees to pay what your attorney believes your case is worth, and you wish to settle for that amount, then your case will not go to court. This is what happens in most situations. Some cases do require a formal trial proceeding, however. In either situation, hiring a law firm with experience in handling personal injury cases is critical.
Car Accident/If I don't feel injured after an automobile accident, do I have to see a doctor?/Both you and your passengers should consider seeing a doctor after an accident. The doctor may recognize injuries, sometimes serious, that are not apparent to you. The charges for a doctor visit and medical treatment may be covered by your insurance. It's not recommended that you settle claims from an accident until a doctor has seen you and advised you about the extent of your injuries.
Car Accident/What if I believe the accident I was in was at least partly my fault?/You're probably not in the best position to assess how or why the accident happened. Defective equipment in your vehicle, a malfunctioning traffic signal, or another driver's intoxication are among many possible causes of an accident, which your attorney can investigate and evaluate. Accepting blame and apologizing to another driver may be used as evidence against you at trial. Leave it to a judge or jury to decide who is at fault.
Car Accident/Can I still win my case if my memory of the accident now conflicts with things I might have said at the time of the accident?/It's very common for people to say things at the time of an incident that they later realize were inaccurate. Sometimes, a witness may misstate what you said about how the incident took place. You might have a hard time explaining how it is that you now remember things differently than you did at the time of the incident, but if you consult with an attorney, he or she will have experience handling such a situation, and can help find support for your side of the story.
Car Accident/I was in a car accident and the air bags in my car didn't deploy. Do I have a case against the car manufacturer?/That depends, as there are several factors that dictate whether an air bag will deploy in a collision. You should consult with an attorney, who will investigate the airbag devices in your car and determine, with the assistance of an engineer, the circumstances under which the airbags were supposed to deploy. If the circumstances of your accident were such that the airbags should have deployed, you very well may have a product liability claim against the manufacturer.
Car Accident/I'm confused about whether or not I should file a lawsuit or just let the insurance company handle things. Is there any way to get a free legal evaluation?/Very often, lawyers for the insurance companies will square off and eventually settle. But every car accident is unique in some way and you may need a good lawyer on your side. If you have any doubts or questions about your case, don't hesitate to contact an experienced automobile accident attorney for a free consultation.
Probation/What is probation?/Probation is the suspension of a jail sentence that allows a person convicted of a crime the chance to remain in the community, instead of going to jail. Probation requires that you follow certain court-ordered rules and conditions under the supervision of a probation officer. Typical conditions may include performing community service, meeting with your probation officer, refraining from using illegal drugs or excessive alcohol, avoiding certain people and places, and appearing in court during requested times.
Probation/How long is a person "on probation"?/The amount of time you are on probation depends on the offense and laws of your state. Typically, probation lasts anywhere from one to three years, but can last longer and even up to life depending on the type of conviction, such as drug or sex offenses.
Probation/What happens if I violate my probation?/A probation violation occurs when you break any of the rules or conditions set forth in the probation order at any time during the probation period. When a potential violation is discovered, your probation officer has the discretion to simply give you a warning, or require you to attend a probation violation hearing. If a judge determines that you violated your probation, you may face additional probation terms, heavy fines, a revoked probation, jail time, or more.
Probation/What are my legal rights at a revocation hearing?/During a revocation hearing, the prosecuting attorney must show that you, more likely than not, violated a term or condition of your probation using a "preponderance of the evidence" standard. Generally, you have a right to learn of any new charges against you and to present evidence in court before a neutral judge that may support your case and/or refute the evidence brought against you. You may want to consult with an attorney or other legal professional regarding the rights available to you in your particular state.
Probation/What happens if my probation is revoked?/A revoked probation does not automatically mean you will be sent to jail. A judge has a variety of options available during sentencing. For instance, upon a revoked probation, a judge may add an extra length to the probation, impose additional fines, or require you get counseling or attend other treatment programs. Even so, a judge may order you to serve a brief period of time in jail, or require you to serve the time allotted on your original sentence, depending on the circumstances. Upon conviction of probation violation, you may request a bail hearing to allow you to remain free for a brief period of time before having to serve time in jail or before a judge makes his final determination.
Probation/Can I appeal a probation violation conviction?/Yes. In most states, you can appeal a probation violation conviction to the state's next highest court. If the court finds that the lower court erred, or that there was insufficient evidence to support the conviction, you may have your probation violation dismissed.
Probation/Can I ever shorten my time on probation?/In most states, you may apply for an early release from probation, yet it is entirely discretionary (not mandatory) for a judge to allow. Typically, a deciding judge will require you to have served at least a third of your probation before eligibility for early release. In addition, a judge may require all of the conditions on your probation be met, for example, rehabilitation classes completed, community service performed, and monies paid. Also, certain offenses such as DUI, sex offenses, and jail felonies are not eligible for early release in most states.
Probation/What's the difference between probation and parole?/Probation and parole sentencing options are similar, yet different in some ways. First, parole is a conditional release from prison that allows a prisoner to rejoin the community after serving all, or a part, of his or her prison term. Probation, on the other hand, is a sentencing order that allows a person convicted of a crime to remain out of jail altogether. Secondly, in both cases, a person on probation or parole must follow certain court-ordered procedures and keep from getting into trouble with the law. Probation and parole violations both occur when a person either breaks the rules or fails to keep the terms of their probation or parole, including getting arrested for another offense. Thirdly, probation and parole violations both carry significant consequences and penalties. When a probation or parole violation occurs, it may result in the person returning back to jail (if on parole), or entering jail (if on probation), depending on the particular circumstances of the case.
Illegal Search and Seizure/At what point are police considered "searching" during an investigation?/In general, a court will ask the following 2 questions to determine whether a police investigation turned into a search. Is the person whose home or property were being investigated/searched expected a degree of privacy? Is that expectation of privacy reasonable (usually based on societal attitudes)? For an investigation to turn into a search, a court must conclude that the investigation impinged or intruded upon a person's "legitimate expectation of privacy." This is found when the answers to the above two questions are yes. If either question can be answered in the negative, meaning that the person being search either did not have something to keep private, or if the expectation of privacy was not reasonable, then there was no "search" for purposes of the Fourth Amendment.
Illegal Search and Seizure/Is my private property really that private?/Property that is within your house or on your property is generally considered to be private. If the police have to enter onto your property in order to get a look at evidence that they wish to use in court, they generally need a search warrant to do so. However, there are certain situations, like stopping suspects from destroying evidence, in which police can search and seize your property in your home without a warrant. This is because the situation itself demands prompt action by the police.
Illegal Search and Seizure/The police told me they have a search warrant, what is it and what did they need to do to get it?/A search warrant is an order issued by a judge or magistrate that gives permission and authorizes the police or other law enforcement agency to conduct a search of a location or person and to seize any evidence of a criminal offense. The search warrant is addressed to the person to be searched or to the person who owns the premises to be searched and informs the addressee that the judge issuing the warrant has found it reasonably likely that certain evidence may be found there. Generally speaking, law enforcement agencies must apply for a search warrant before conducting a search of the person or premise in issue. If any search is conducted in the absence of a search warrant, it is presumed to be unreasonable and will likely be ruled an illegal search and seizure. If a challenge to such a search is made, the officials conducting the search will have to explain and justify their reasons for the search, as well as explain why a warrant was not issued.
Illegal Search and Seizure/What powers do police get when they have a search warrant?/A search warrant gives the police the legal authority to enter a premise without permission of the owner to search for the evidence listed in the warrant in the places authorized by the warrant. For example, if the search warrant allows the police to search the bathroom of a home for illegal drugs, then the police should confine their search to the bathroom. There are certain exceptions to this search warrant rule which routinely allow police to conduct a wider-spanning search than allowed by the search warrant. In general, police can search beyond the scope of the search warrant in order to ensure their own safety as well as the safety of others. In addition, police can search widely to stop the destruction of evidence, look for evidence beyond the scope of the original search warrant because their initial search revealed that there may be additional evidence in other locations on the property, or to find more evidence based upon what is in plain view.
Illegal Search and Seizure/My landlord/roommate gave the police permission to search my belongings - was this an illegal search and seizure?/Generally speaking, the person in charge of an area has the power to give permission to the police to search the area. So, if you share an apartment with a roommate, your roommate probably has the power to give permission to the police to search common areas in the apartment, like the living room or the kitchen, but not your personal bedroom. Likewise, your landlord cannot give permission to the police to search any part of your apartment, except places like a communal common area, like a washer/dryer room in an apartment building. However, you should keep in mind that it is not an illegal search and seizure if the police search your apartment without any permission if they feel that the search is an emergency.
Illegal Search and Seizure/During a traffic stop, can the police search my car and frisk me?/In general, the police are allowed to search and frisk you if they have a reasonable suspicion that you are armed during a traffic stop. This is not an illegal search and seizure. In addition to frisking for weapons, the police can also pat you down for contraband material, like drugs. A recent Supreme Court ruling altered the laws that allow a police officer to search a car after a traffic stop. The Court ruled that a search of the passenger compartment of a car is only allowed if either: the driver/arrestee is within reaching distance of the passenger compartment at the time of the search or it is reasonable to believe the vehicle contains evidence of the offense of arrest.
Illegal Search and Seizure/My car was towed and impounded, can the police search it?/In short, yes. If the police have towed and impounded your car, they have the authority to search your vehicle. This search can be as comprehensive as the police wish and will most likely include opening any locked compartments or boxes found within your car. It does not matter what your car was towed and impounded for, it could be for something as simple as a parking violation or as serious as auto-theft. Regardless, the police can search your car if it has been impounded. Police cannot tow and impound your car for the sole purpose of searching it, however, and must follow strict procedures when it comes to these types of searches.
Traffic Ticket/What is a "moving violation"?/A moving violation occurs whenever a traffic law is violated by a vehicle in motion. Some examples of moving violations are speeding, running a stop sign or red light, and drunk driving. A non-moving violation, by contrast, is usually related to parking or faulty equipment. Examples include parking in front of a fire hydrant, parking in a no-parking zone, parking in front of an expired meter, and excessive muffler noise.
Traffic Ticket/If I am guilty of a traffic violation, shouldn't I just pay the ticket and get it over with?/If you plead guilty to a traffic charge, the court will typically require you to pay the maximum fine allowed by law and will record the conviction on your DMV record for a period of years. A conviction will most likely result in points on your license. A certain amount of points can increase your insurance premiums and accumulate with any other charges such that, eventually, you could lose your driving privileges. An experienced attorney can advise you on whether it may be worth fighting a ticket in your particular circumstances.
Traffic Ticket/Can I refuse a Breathalyzer test if I get stopped for drunk driving?/Although the answer can vary by state, in many cases such a refusal is itself a criminal violation subject to stiff penalties. In addition, if the case against you is proven anyhow, the penalties for the refusal may be above and beyond those for the drunk driving itself.
Traffic Ticket/Should I try to "pay my way" out of a ticket?/Offering a police officer money in exchange for not writing a traffic ticket can be viewed as bribery, extortion, or other serious crimes. If you want to contest the ticket, there are legitimate ways to do so that will not add to your problems, compound the penalties, and exacerbate the situation.
Traffic Ticket/What is the legal limit for blood toxicity?/In general, it is illegal for you to drive while you are "impaired" by drugs or alcohol. It should be clear at the outset that prescription drugs are not excluded from this list. Being impaired means that there must be enough of the alcohol or drug in your system to prevent you from thinking clearly and driving safely while on the road. According to many studies, impairment happens to many people well before they consider themselves drunk or stoned. As for the numbers if you have a blood alcohol content of .08% or higher, that is considered "per se" Driving Under the Influence (DUI), or Driving While Intoxicated (DWI). For those under the legal drinking age of 21, in almost all states you will be considered to be driving under the influence if you have a blood alcohol content great than .01% or .02%, depending on the state you are in.
Traffic Ticket/After I have been stopped for driving under the influence, can I consult with a lawyer before deciding which a chemical test to take?/This depends upon the laws of your state. For example, in Arizona, you may talk to a lawyer before deciding to take a chemical test. However, other states do not allow you to consult with an attorney before a test.
Traffic Ticket/I was stopped at a roadblock and asked to wait to answer some questions. Was this legal?/If the police used some sort of neutral policy for picking out which cars to stop, then it was legal. Police are allowed to single out automobiles at roadblocks if they have a good reason to do so, such as a suspicion that you are driving under the influence.
Traffic Ticket/What is the difference between a misdemeanor traffic offense and a felony traffic offense?/Although many traffic violations are deemed mere infractions, some are misdemeanors, which carry stiffer fines and the possibility of up to one year in jail. The most serious traffic crimes are felonies, which generally involve repeat offenses or violations that result in injury to persons or property. Felonies have even greater penalties, including higher fines and imprisonment for over a year.
Traffic Ticket/What if I lose my license but continue to drive anyway?/If a person whose license has been revoked or suspended due to previous traffic violations chooses to drive without a valid license and is pulled over, he or she stands to suffer more serious consequences, including fines and imprisonment. The more prudent course of action is to rely on friends and family for rides or use public transportation.
Traffic Ticket/Can a lawyer help me with my traffic tickets?/Yes, in many cases. However, it is not necessary to call a lawyer every time you get a traffic ticket, since the stakes are not typically that high. In fact, the cost of retaining an attorney likely will be much higher than the cost of paying the ticket. However, you may want to speak with a traffic ticket attorney if, for example, you're facing the prospect of license suspension or an insurance rate hike.
Others/How do I protect an idea I have for a movie?/The general rule in intellectual property law is that you cannot protect an idea — you can only protect an expression of that idea. Thus, you cannot protect an idea you have for a movie, but you may be able to protect a script you've written. In your case, you would need copyright protection for the script. If a script exists, and you're interested in legal protection for it, talk to an intellectual property lawyer about your next steps.
Others/If I have an accident out of state and want to sue the other party, where should I file the suit?/Under the typical jurisdictional rules, you have a choice to make. You can file suit in the state where you live, the state where the other party lives, or the place where the accident occurred. You should consult with an attorney to discuss the best place for you to file suit. The decision will depend upon factors such as convenience and availability of witnesses.
Others/Who should I notify if I want to home school my children?/Technically, you're not required to notify anyone. It's a good practice, however, to notify your local school administrator that you plan to home school your child in order to prevent any truancy proceedings from being initiated. Although the truancy proceeding won't succeed, because you're entitled to home school your child in Illinois, you can save yourself the trouble by letting the school district know your plans.
Others/How can I stop telemarketers from calling my home?/Place your name on the Federal Trade Commission's Do Not Call list: http://www.ftc.gov/donotcall. Some smaller organizations, however, such as neighborhood newspapers and the local policemen's benevolent association, will probably continue to call.
Others/How long does it take to evict a tenant?/Evictions for nonpayment of rent require a five-day notice. Evictions for all other reasons require a 10-day notice. Evictions where the lease contains a specific end date do not require any notice. If the lease agreement contains a longer time than that provided by law, for example, 30 days, the longer time would apply. If the tenant fails to move out after the eviction notice is served, the next step is to file an eviction suit. The length of time involved depends upon how long the sheriff's department takes to serve notice on the tenant, how quickly a court date is set, whether the court date is ever postponed, and whether the tenant appeals a decision rendered against him or her.
Others/What can I do if my landlord refuses to give back my security deposit?/If your landlord refuses to return your security deposit, you'll probably have to file suit against him or her in small claims court. The only real option short of filing suit is to talk to attorney about having the attorney write a letter on your behalf to the landlord demanding return of the security deposit. Talk to an attorney about which option works best in your situation.
Others/When do I lose the earnest money I put down on a house?/When you make an offer to buy a house, you signed a real estate contract. The conditions under which you will lose your earnest money are contained in the contract. Generally, if you're unable to come up with the purchase money at closing, you'll lose your earnest money. The typical contract has a mortgage contingency clause, which provides that the contract is contingent upon the buyer obtaining a mortgage commitment by some specified date. If the buyer is unable to obtain the commitment, the contract is void and the earnest money is returned to the buyer. Some people mistakenly believe that they'll lose their earnest money if they cannot get a mortgage commitment, but that's not true.
